------WebKitFormBoundaryd6M4BTLBhFMxt8lM
Content-Disposition: form-data; name="title"

Frankenstein at Shakespeare Theatre NOW
------WebKitFormBoundaryd6M4BTLBhFMxt8lM
Content-Disposition: form-data; name="content"

Shakespeare Theatre’s Frankenstein - by Sherri Rase
Shakespeare Theatre of New Jersey has dubbed this season to be one of “violent delights” and their
prudction of David Catlin’s masterful “Mary Shelley’s Frankenstein” is, well, the embodiment of this very
idea. This production, directed by Artistic Director Brian B. Crowe, is a nuanced psychological work that
is so sharp, sometimes we don’t realize the cut until we see the blood.
We begin in a gothic drawing room where Percy Bysshe Shelley (Sean-Michael Wilkinson) is just finishing
his ghastly ghost story to entertain his friends and his (current) paramour Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley
(Amber Friendly). Lord Byron (Jay Wade) weighs in that while Percy feels no one need follow him, that
his own effort was in fact the winner. Wisely, Dr. John Polidori (Neil Redfield) and Claire Clairmont
(Brooke Turner) (who happens to be carrying Byron’s baby) choose to remain audience. Mary has a trick
or two up her sleeve however, and thus our tale begins. Remember, there was no Netflix-and-chill,
people made their own music and spun their own tales – and this one has stood the test of time.
Mr. Wilkinson takes on Victor, our benighted hero, who learns the VERY hard way that just because we
can do something, should we? Mr. Redfield becomes Victor’s bestie Henry and Ms. Friendly is Victor’s
beloved Elizabeth. Ms. Turner is a chameleon, replete with accents and characters that run the gamut
from boychild to harridan, and Mr. Wade is a monster such as you’ve never seen. Heart-breakingly self
aware yet unable to control his passions, while Victor has created him, they unwittingly and
systematically tear one another apart. These are the aspects that linger with me still.
Sarah Beth Hall’s sets are perfect spooky season fare with shreds of cloth clinging like memories in
specific places. Yao Chen’s costumes are pure delight with Andrew Hungerford’s lights and Ariana
Cardoza’s sound adding such subtle touches that you feel them before you notice them. Rocio Mendez
choreographed both intimacy and fights and Julie Foh coached dialect and voice. Truly, Mr. Crowe
assembled a dream team for this gothic fever’d vision.
Whipped into this mélange are the tidbits of backstory of the actual characters with a wrap that has you
buzzing on the way out the door. Come for the title, the show will thrill you and give you a great deal to
think about - 19 th century prose with a 21 st century impact.
Get your tickets now for “Mary Shelley’s Frankenstein” for a most memorable modern Prometheus.
https://www.shakespearenj.org/events/detail/mary-shelleys-frankenstein now through November 16
only!
------WebKitFormBoundaryd6M4BTLBhFMxt8lM
Content-Disposition: form-data; name="imageFilename"

fShow more