Dark Delight at TOSOS - by Sherri Rase



The latest production by The Other Side of Silence (TOSOS), NYC's oldest and longest producing LGBTQ+ theatre company, is raw with emotion, power and grief.  "let's talk about anything else" is Anthony Anello's paean to pain.  The pain of loss, the pain of grief and navigating the shoals of what comes next is the subject of this work and it explores this topic in the most novel ways.  

 

Rosalie (Posie Lewis) tells us a story, a critical story, that outlines her anxiety, her grief and her relationship.  The details are exquisitely important in ways you will learn.  The narrative weaves its glistening thread through all that is to come.  Yet, we don’t know that yet.  Next, we hear the 911 call where Charley (Sadithi De Zilva) is panicking when she finds their friend Abby in her apartment, unresponsive.  This is done in pitch dark, where every nuance of each voice has import and weight.

 

The lights come up on the interior of the Berkshires Air BnB where Abby’s core group of friends has decided they will gather to figure out who they are as friends without her among them.  These are all young people who thought they’d have decades before they’d need to consider a situation like this.  The friends arrive including Enda (Ry Albinus), Meg (Caroline Portante), Beck (Gabriella O’Fallon), and Pine (Dylan Lesch) who’s not really part of the friend group, though he is Ro’s boyfriend.  His first time meeting the group was Abby’s funeral.  In fact, Ro has broken the primary rule of the weekend – no boys – this is made even more intriguing by the fact that Beck is her ex.  So let’s re-cap – dead friend, cabin in the woods, current meets ex, emotionally volatile situation.  What could possibly go wrong?  And how wrong it goes.

 

Does the Wrong-ness begin with Charley meeting Wes (Evan Clausen) in what should be deserted woods, where there are no neighbors within visible distance?  Wes is the same age as the group, leading her to believe he's a neighbor and Charley finds him charming.  Considering what she’s experienced in the most recent 12 months, is Wes a blessing or something else?  In fact, Wes manages to finagle his way into the week-long house party, working his wiles all the while. He seems to have knowledge beyond something mortal.  There are revealing monologues and a tickling, ticking frisson of hackles as Danger seems to be lurking about, how long do we continue to tell ourselves it’s nothing…? 

 

Dennis Corsi’s deft direction with Evan Frank’s set complemented by Dominick Z. Riches’ lighting and Morry Campbell’s sound creates a definite vibe.  David Leeper’s fight choreography and the work of every one of these actors will take your breath away.  And Anello’s end game is to keep you talking about the experience.  Trust me, that you will.

 

See this show – it runs only through September 28, so get your tickets today at: https://theflea.org/guest-productions/letstalkaboutanythingelse